# Response to Blumenstock 
Matt Wydra

27 January

Joshua Blumenstock writes about numerous promises that big data and data science had for 
the future. Unfortunately, many of these failed to come to fruition. Data science was
supposed to solve the world's problems (this was one of the promises he spoke of). 
However, one pitfall is that it ended up worsening things. Solutions that were promised 
to fix issues were proposed by data science and ended up enabling the empowered to 
continue to run over the less-fortunate. Despite this, Blumenstock is hopeful. He talks 
of ways forward and ways to fix the problems data science has managed to bring about. 
One such solution is to valitate data. This can be done through the use of old data in
addition to new data; through the use of existing methods and new methods; through 
pairing together things that we know work with things that can make it even better.

I think my peers made some excellent points about data science. As for good intent, I
Learned in ACM that there are many issues with Machine Learning (ML) because good intent
doesn't mean ethical outcomes. Many times, ML is unethical and leads to much bigger 
problems so I think that good intent is important for PR but actually making good
decisions is more important. This comes into play with the balancing act. balancing good
intent and good outcomes is very difficult because big data can make take a well
intentioned machine and turn it into an unethical monster. So, balancing everything is 
very difficult but can be made easier with transparency and making sure that the public
is informed of things when they go wrong. There are many smart people in the public
with lovely ideas that can help when things go wrong. There are also people who are 
against ML and lack of transparency can hinder them from being supportive.
